README.md, before:

# gameboy_emulator

A game Boy emulator written in C and running on SDL3.

## Useful information

The emulator supports controllers and includes also a debug window that shows all the sprites currently loaded in memory.

![alt text](<resources/images/pkmn red gif.gif>)

To run it on your own device you must have SDL3 installed. My makefile expects you to have an SDL/build folder containing SDL3. At the time i am writing this the current version is the 3.2.4. You can download SDL [here](https://www.libsdl.org/).

To build just run 
``` bash
make
```
 while in the root directory and to run just run 

``` bash
make run
```

You can pass Supports MBC1, MBC2 And MBC3 cartridges. Tested on The Legend of Zelda Link's Awakening and Pokemon Red

## References

This project would not have been possible without the following resources:

- https://gbdev.io/pandocs/
- https://www.pastraiser.com/cpu/gameboy/gameboy_opcodes.html
- https://archive.org/details/GameBoyProgManVer1.1/page/n85/mode/2up
- https://github.com/rockytriton

## Further improvements

There are still more things that could be implemented: 

- Mapping more memory modes
- GBC support
- Save states
- Speedup
- Custom resolutions
- etc.

Feel free to iterate over this software should you want to

Should you want to run it on windows you can find the vscode project on the "windows" branch

Commit message:

feat: move front end from SDL3 to ebiten

README.md, after:

# gameboy_emulator

A Game Boy emulator powered by a C core with a Go (Ebiten) frontend.

## Useful information

The emulator supports keyboard input and currently focuses on the main window. The debug window will return in a future phase.

![alt text](<resources/images/pkmn red gif.gif>)

## Build prerequisites

### Windows
- Go 1.21+
- MinGW-w64 or MSYS2 (gcc) for cgo
  - MSYS2 recommended: https://www.msys2.org/
  - Install gcc: `pacman -S mingw-w64-x86_64-gcc`
- Environment variables:
  ```bash
  set CGO_ENABLED=1
  set CC=gcc
  ```

### Linux
- Go 1.21+
- GCC (`sudo apt install build-essential`)

## Build

```bash
go build -o gameboy.exe .
```

## Run

```bash
gameboy.exe path/to/rom.gb
```

Supports MBC1 and MBC3 cartridges. Tested on The Legend of Zelda Link's Awakening and Pokemon Red.

## References

This project would not have been possible without the following resources:

- https://gbdev.io/pandocs/
- https://www.pastraiser.com/cpu/gameboy/gameboy_opcodes.html
- https://archive.org/details/GameBoyProgManVer1.1/page/n85/mode/2up
- https://github.com/rockytriton

## Further improvements

There are still more things that could be implemented: 

- Mapping more memory modes
- GBC support
- Save states
- Speedup
- Custom resolutions
- etc.

Feel free to iterate over this software should you want to

Should you want to run it on windows you can find the vscode project on the "windows" branch
